PREFACE TO
THE REVISED EDITION
In the first edition of this book, then called POET, The Psychology of Everyday Things, I started with these lines: “This is the book I
always wanted to write, except I didn’t know it.” Today I do know it, so I simply say, “This is the book I always wanted to write.” This is a starter kit 
for good design. It is intended to be enjoyable and informative for everyone: everyday people, technical people, designers, and nondesigners.
One goal is to turn readers into great observers of the absurd, of the poor design that gives rise to so many of the problems of modern life, especially
of modern technology. It will also turn them into observers of the good, of the ways in which thoughtful designers have worked to make our lives
easier and smoother. Good design is actually a lot harder to notice than poor design, in part because good designs fit our needs
so well that the design is invisible, serving us without drawing attention to itself. Bad design, on the other hand, screams out its inadequacies, making itself very noticeable.
Along the way I lay out the fundamental principles required to eliminate problems, to turn our everyday stuff into enjoyable
products that provide pleasure and satisfaction. The combination of good observation skills and good design principles is a powerful tool, one that
everyone can use, even people who are not professional designers. Why? Because we are all designers in the sense that all of us deliberately design 
our lives, our rooms, and the way we do things. We can also design workarounds, ways of overcoming the flaws of existing devices. So, one purpose 
of this book is to give back your control over the products in your life: to know how to select usable and understandable ones, to know how to fix 
those that aren’t so usable or understandable.
The first edition of the book has lived a long and healthy life. Its name was quickly changed to Design of Everyday Things (DOET)
to make the title less cute and more descriptive. DOET has been read by the general public and by designers. It has been assigned
in courses and handed out as required readings in many companies. Now, more than twenty years after its release, the book is
still popular. I am delighted by the response and by the number of people who correspond with me about it, who send me further
examples of thoughtless, inane design, plus occasional examples of superb design. Many readers have told me that it has changed
their lives, making them more sensitive to the problems of life and to the needs of people. Some changed their careers and became
designers because of the book. The response has been amazing 