Why a Revised Edition?
In the twenty-five years that have passed since the first edition of the book, technology has undergone massive change. Neither cell phones nor the 
Internet were in widespread usage when I wrote the book. Home networks were unheard of. Moore’s law proclaims that the power of computer 
processors doubles roughly every two years. This means that today’s computers are five thousand times more powerful than the ones available when 
the book was first written.
Although the fundamental design principles of The Design of Everyday Things are still as true and as important as when the first edition was written, 
the examples were badly out of date. “What is a slide projector?” students ask. Even if nothing else was to be changed, the examples had to be 
updated.The principles of effective design also had to be brought up to date. Human-centered design (HCD) has emerged since the first edition, 
partially inspired by that book. This current edition has an entire chapter devoted to the HCD process of product development. The first edition of 
the book focused upon making products understandable and usable. The total experience of a product covers much more than its usability: 
aesthetics, pleasure, and fun play critically important roles. There was no discussion of pleasure, enjoyment, or emotion. Emotion is so important that 
I wrote an entire book, Emotional Design, about the role it plays in design 
These issues are also now included in this edition. My experiences in industry have taught me about the complexities of the real world, how cost and 
schedules are critical, the need to pay attention to competition, and the importance of multi disciplinary teams. I learned that the successful product 
has to appeal to customers, and the criteria they use to determine what to purchase may have surprisingly little overlap with the aspects that are 
important during usage. The best products do not always succeed. Brilliant new technologies might take decades to become accepted. To 
understand products, it is not enough to understand design or technology: it is critical to understand business.
